Create a new user in Okta, follow these steps:

Log in to the Okta Admin Console.
Navigate to Directory > People.
Click Add Person.
Select a user type in the User type list or accept the default. See About custom user types in Universal Directory.
Complete the following fields:
First name
Last name
Username (in email format)
Primary email (if different from username)
Secondary email (optional)
Groups (optional)
Password (select Set by user to allow the user to set their password, or select Set by admin and enter a password)
Send user activation now (optional)
User must change password on first login (optional)
Click Save Changes.
Note: If you are creating a user with a custom user type, you may need to complete additional fields.

Once you have created the user, they will be able to log in to Okta and access the applications and resources that you have assigned to them.

Here are some additional tips for creating new users in Okta:

Use strong passwords for all users.
Enable two-factor authentication for all users.
Assign users to the appropriate groups and applications.
Review user accounts regularly to ensure that they are still active and that they have the appropriate permissions.


To assign an admin role to a user in Okta, follow these steps:

Log in to the Okta Admin Console.
Navigate to Security > Administrators.
Click Add Administrator.
In the Select Admin field, enter the user's email or username and select them from the resulting search.
In the Role drop-down menu, select the role you wish the user to have.
Click Save Changes.
Note: Only super administrators can manage admins in Okta.

To assign an admin role to a user from the user's profile page:

In the Admin Console, navigate to Directory > People.
Select the user you want to assign the admin role to.
Click the Admin Roles tab.
If the user doesn't have any existing admin role assignments, click Add admin assignment. If the user already has existing admin assignments, click Edit individual assignments.
In the Role drop-down menu, select the role you wish the user to have.
Click Save Changes.
Once you have assigned an admin role to a user, they will be able to perform the tasks associated with that role. For example, if you assign the Super Administrator role to a user, they will be able to manage all aspects of your Okta organization, including users, groups, applications, and policies.

It is important to only assign admin roles to users who need them. Assigning too many users admin roles can increase the risk of security breaches.


To create a group in Okta, follow these steps:

Log in to the Okta Admin Console.
Navigate to Directory > Groups.
Click Create Group.
Enter a name for the group in the Name field.
Optional: Enter a description for the group in the Group Description field.
Click Create Group.


To add people to a group, follow these steps:

Log in to the Okta Admin Console.
Navigate to Directory > Groups.
Select the group that you want to add people to.
Click the Users tab.
In the Username field, enter the name of the user you want to add to the group.
Click Add User.

You can also add multiple users to a group at once by uploading a CSV file. To do this, follow these steps:

Log in to the Okta Admin Console.
Navigate to Directory > Groups.
Select the group that you want to add people to.
Click the Users tab.
Click Assign people.
Click More Actions > Assign people via import from CSV.
Click Browse and select the CSV file that contains the names of the users you want to add to the group.
Click Open.
Click Assign.
Once you have added people to a group, they will be able to access the applications and resources that you have assigned to the group.

Here are some additional tips for creating and managing groups in Okta:

Use descriptive names for your groups so that you can easily identify them.
Assign users to the appropriate groups based on their job roles and permissions.
Review your groups regularly to ensure that they are still active and that the users assigned to them have the appropriate permissions.
You can also use groups to create and manage application assignments. 
For example, you can create a group for all users who need to access a particular application and then assign the application to the group. 
This will make it easier to manage application access for all of your users.

To populate a group using group rules in Okta, follow these steps:

Create a group rule that matches the users who you want to add to the group. You can use basic conditions or the Okta Expression Language to create rules.
Assign the group rule to the group that you want to populate.
Click Save.
Once you have saved the group rule, it will be evaluated periodically and any users who match the rule conditions will be added to the group.

Here are some examples of group rules that you can use to populate groups:

Add all users with the email domain @example.com to the Example Company Employees group.
Add all users with the job title Software Engineer to the Software Engineers group.
Add all users who have completed the Onboarding Training course to the Onboarded Users group.
You can also use group rules to populate groups based on combinations of attributes. For example, you could create a group rule that adds all users with the job title Software Engineer and the department Engineering to the Engineering Software Engineers group.

Group rules can be a powerful tool for automating the management of groups in Okta. By using group rules, you can ensure that your groups are always up-to-date and that the right users are assigned to the right groups.
